uh
call me evan that's my name okay welcome
evan
you can call me alexa okay nice to meet
you alexa and evan
so um i understand that we're gonna be
talking about your relationship today
yes okay and so let me just try to
outline a little bit
about how i usually like to do this so i
like to talk to each person individually
for like maybe 30 to 45 minutes
and get y'all's individual perspectives
because especially i understand there's
some kind of tension in y'all's
relationship
i imagine that's why we're coming on
okay um
and so we wanna hear from each of you
individually
uh and that also gives you guys kind of
a chance to
you know speak freely without the other
person there i mean i understand this is
being
recorded for the internet um so a couple
of ground rules no watching
okay so you can't watch the stream while
you're not in the room
okay um and maybe even no watching
afterward
and and then after talking to each of
you we'll kind of get you all in
together
and see if we can sort of facilitate
some kind of communication or hell
does that sound okay so who wants to go
first
you can go first babe i'll go first okay
all right
so alexa do you mind stepping out of the
room yeah no problem no
no watching
evan it looks like we have the same
chair man chairperson ah
ikea yeah oh yours has some does mine do
that
it was up and down oh wow you have a
better one
it's fancier
um so evan tell me a little bit about
why uh you know why you guys decided to
come on stream which thank you by the
way
yeah thanks for having us um i
well we recently moved
cities together uh okay it's been a
relationship for like five
years um coming up about five years
um we're 22 kind of young
and i would i wouldn't say there's a
like urgent issue that arises it's
there's much more of a sort of
passive uh background feelings i think
that we have
uh okay about it and like insecurities
and
kind of yeah the the question we posed
of
when to break up which is not something
either of us actively want
like we very much feel in love and on
our day to day is like usually very good
and uh
productive and uh okay cohesive work we
work well together we communicate well
um
but there are things that
arise over time where they're just sort
of like
no-go zones i guess um
and that's what i'm gonna put has put
like yeah
frustration in me over time because uh
and personally i am much more like
focused in on the thing once once i know
the
no go zone i get fixated with it over
time and i
okay respect it to a degree but once it
comes up i
uh it's hard for me to have any other
perspective on it than the one that we
left off on
if that sure makes sense yeah so let me
just make sure i understand you
so it sounds like there's some you know
the day-to-day interaction
in your relationship is good um it
sounds like you guys love each other
and there's some taboo topics yeah and
and so you guys sort of it sounds like
you all don't
talk about them because that usually
leads to conflict so you guys have
realized
for the sake of harmony we're going to
steer clear
of that area yeah there's there's pve
zones
and there's pvp zones yes good i like
that
and and so you're like okay we don't
want to play pvp but the problem
is that those seem to be on some level
important things and now you know that
there's like some zone that's like taboo
that issue never gets settled so it's
kind of weighing on you
yeah okay and
and it uh increases over time almost and
especially given like
the recent like moving there's uh
there's much more like on the line i
guess so those
okay can you tell us can you be a little
bit more specific so like what's an
example of a no-go zone
um i think uh
like breaking up or sort of uh
like talking about the end of something
where
they're uh
you know it's kind of what it's very
like either
together forever or it happens at some
point and
i feel a certain
like uh yeah that that bothers me i
guess um what bothers you
uh like the fact that it has to end and
go like one
way or the other um okay and
i know and i yeah like a lot every day i
can be like okay well you take it one
day at a time you
you make today a good day yada yada but
um
and like this some other like
different uh i don't want to get too
specific but different
ways we care for our mental health she
might
do something and
treat herself one way i might do it
another um
and so we're talking about self-care and
the way that you guys
differ like the way that
you know those are their differences in
the ways that you care for yourselves
yeah yeah um okay
i and where
i'll i just have an opinion on something
and i uh
think she
shouldn't and i understand this is flat
but that's not the way she should be
uh approaching the problem sort of and
i get um again like when she shouldn't
be doing something
yeah whenever the topic comes up i
stay at that stance even though i i'm
trying to be supportive and like dynamic
and see the perspectives and
just supportive of however she thinks
she needs to
i i find myself being incredibly curious
about
what you're saying and at the same time
also wanting to respect your privacy
yeah if you can give me like five
seconds sure i don't think
she'd have a problem with me mentioning
what it is but i just want to make sure
it's okay with her yep thank you
that's solid by the way
that's what we want right
all right we got the green light okay so
what are we talking about
well done by the way evan thank you yeah
i do my best um uh
antidepressants okay like she
this is not a medical stream i know that
um but
she will uh you know going through a
hard time
one of her ways of like she's on them
and particularly rough period chose to
like increase
um after and i guess my perspective on
it is
she's been on them forever for a very
long time
and i've always seen the goal as
like decreasing those like not having a
dependence or um like i think i think
things will be good for a very long
period of time but she's still taking
them and that seems
odd to me okay um so
yeah it badass okay so and and how
how do you care for yourself when you're
going through a rough time
um i i mean like any other gamer i'd say
i
i withdraw i i hide
i um yeah i have had
blessed not much lately but used to
recreationally drug use
um and generally kind of like
suppressing and uh that kind of stuff
and
sure like healthier ways of doing this i
think are
really just like talking to people i
found and having relationships
helps me a ton in processing those in a
good way instead of just not thinking
about them playing league of legends
you all noob yes
okay so it sounds like sometimes you
guys have um
kind of arguments about perspectives
around taking medication and
uh you know being dependent on
substances
um and so that's kind of one of the
no-go zones
it sounds like another no-go zone is
sort of talking about
where your relationship is going
yeah um and this ventures into
sort of uh like yeah
the the expectations of relationships
like we've always
we've always what kind of expectations
are we talking about
um like when we first started dating we
we both used this phrase that we
big picture liked each other we we like
liked each other on the big
it wasn't like just like oh you're fun
to hang out with a couple times a week
we're like no this is we
really like each other and the timing in
our lives was such that
we could uh
think on that level um and it's like
worked really well and she's in school
i'm not i just
work um and we've
chugged along with this but there is
um yeah i guess i feel like an
expectation to live up
to that me five years ago who was saying
that sometimes
and i'm sorry what were you saying
exactly
oh that like oh and
that we like big picture like each other
that we're in this for the long haul
that we know
that we may not always like each other
but we love each other sort of okay
in it for the long haul and so do you
feel
bound by making that commitment years
ago
um i feel a responsibility i feel i
guess i feel bound by that
responsibility too
and what is the responsibility um
to be there for her
and would breaking up with her mean not
being there for her
yes okay
what do you think about that
i mean and i you've got maybe uh
they it does do i have what is it
oh no because uh i imagine
i don't see it going us breaking up in a
like
peaceful we can still be friends kind of
way even though i think we're mostly
friends
more than like lovers or anything
um that i do i don't know how what that
would look like
at all to be able to support her but not
be dating
and and so i mean so evan i'm gonna say
something that may be judgmental but i'm
just gonna toss it out there okay
you gotta let me know if it's it makes
you feel bad or if it's wrong
so i'm i'm hearing that a major reason
you're in the relationship
is out of a sense of responsibility as
opposed to like wanting to be in the
relationship itself
um yeah i think that's
more my cynical view of time at
times sure well and there is
uh
like i and then there's obviously i
think
or not obviously uh i've learned
throughout time going to therapy and
things that
the value of relationships and that i
need relationships and that
they do just improve my life even if it
seems hard in the short run
um so
i uh yeah and there's
there's some other thing there of like
being too comfortable in this and like
knowing how it's going to go
and it's it's safe because it is how
it's always been for the past
while instead of the scary unknown
and how do you feel about that
um i i do
feel like i should
at times i feel like i should sacrifice
what i have
like the comfort that i have um to to
get something better
i guess is the idea that i hear a lot um
but also at the same time when i think
of what that actually looks like
and actually going through that it
doesn't feel like something i want
i i feel like it would be a mistake
okay
can i think for a second please
thank you
okay here's what i'm hearing
so it sounds like your relationship is
good for a lot of reasons
um you know it sounds like you guys have
been together for five years and you
said you're
22 so you guys got together when you
were 17. yep
um you know early on y'all were very
much in love and it sounds like y'all
are still in love
and you made kind of as 17 year olds do
broad commitments we're gonna do it for
the rest of our life
um you also recognize and so years have
gone on you guys have gotten through a
lot together you've moved in together
uh you know like any relationship you
guys have your challenges but i'm
hearing that there's a lot of good stuff
there
i'm hearing that for your own stability
that being in a relationship is
important i'm hearing that the
relationship has become
comfortable safe dependable
maybe there's more i'm getting the sense
that something is missing from your
relationship
i'm not sure exactly what that is maybe
there is something missing maybe there
isn't
we can get to that in a second but
overall it seems like the relationship
is good it sounds like
alexa is a is uh maybe your best friend
and and so you know there's a lot of
good stuff there
what i'm hearing from you evan is a butt
but so like if we think about life
do we want to choose the road that's
safe
there's a there's a path of certainty
and safety
and there's a path of uncertainty
there's a path there's like a risk like
a high risk and a low risk option
and what i'm hearing you kind of
struggle with is like how do you know
when you should do something that like
you kind of know is good for you
versus how do you grow
because what i'm really hearing from you
is that like you're not growing in this
relationship anymore
yes i think that's very accurate
right and and that's tricky because like
how much of this relationship
sure i mean this is what i envision it's
kind of like
you know there's the waters around our
island which we know well and which are
safe
but at what point do you decide to like
pack as much food as you can
into your boat and sail into the horizon
and see what you can find
is that how you feel yeah yeah um
and especially with another person
involved the the decision gets like
muddied very quickly because how does
another person muddy the decision
i mean it's uh
i feel that i should take her feelings
into account right i feel like
uh even i need to venture off into
uncertainty
and i'm like well there's plenty of
other ways i can do that that doesn't
necessarily mean
like ending this relationship you can
install dota for example yeah exactly
yeah i just started playing
counter-strike and that's
i'm like a new new way to waste my time
cool um
but there's yes sorry i lost a point
no i mean so you were saying that when
another person gets involved it gets
complicated so like how like so
how does taking her feelings into
account how does that complicate things
um well i'd say because
there's there's no like one to one on
my feeling versus your feeling like
in obviously one one individual another
individual
but the like levels of feeling and the
attachments and the like need for
someone else at a certain time and it um
the like specificity of
thinking about uh like
changing things up gets okay
overwhelming
okay so so so what i'm hearing is that
the details of
how you go off sailing into the sunset
become really complicated when you have
to think about someone else
yeah yeah and especially the i think the
feelings
have arose at this time which feelings
uh those the feelings of
uncertainty and um
like almost like lost possibilities
like that i'm like yeah committed on
a path now of some certainty having
like moved in together in a new city
how does it feel to have lost those
possibilities
um it's
it like it it hurts it hurts my
ego or something inside of me where it i
i want to like do a lot whatever that
means
um and
like i have yeah friends who have done
things for the same period of time that
i've like been in this relationship and
i
almost do one-to-one compare those
things where i'm like well they have
this degree or this project or this like
organization going and i
have a relationship cool
yeah i'm a little bit um help me
understand
what how
the relationship interferes with let's
say
having a degree or a project
uh
right i think yeah yeah i think and
maybe i'm
getting too abstract but i think it is
like an identity thing
of feeling some tie
to be a similar person to who i was when
this started what does that mean
um like i remember the time we met
it was last year of high school
and i was like nope not going to college
i'm going to
i'm gonna work i worked at a restaurant
and i'm independent it's very
like i'm gonna read books and
philosophize on my own and like
be this uh individual and
i like that voice you did when
um and yeah i guess
i just i guess i'm not
yet sure why i feel like there's less
or less yeah opportunities available to
me but i do feel like there's less
opportunities available to me because
i'm in this okay okay
okay
so you sound to me like you're feeling
like you're stagnating or shackled in
some way
i wouldn't use those words but yes the
feeling is yes
yeah so what words would you use
um i mean i would say
uh stuck or um
kind of dormant oh dormant is a good one
ooh i like that one i'm gonna have to
start using that one more
so much more positive than stuck yes i'm
i think i'm i'm very good because you're
reading
philosophy books on your own
um okay and and so can you help me
understand like
what happens when you go into a no-go
zone
when you switch from co-op to versus
yeah
it is like it's almost as if the lights
change
and the like spotlight comes down on us
and
um the i mean what it literally is is
very much like
attention arises and
we both are sort of
usually not saying anything because we
both know
the space that we're going to be
entering we both know like
the scripts that we usually go down
which is like okay
why like yeah why did you increase that
or like well
you're gonna have to go down like so
you're gonna be on it forever you know
like this
those kind of things um and
very much waiting for someone to make a
move
and sort of and then maybe like guys
circling each other yeah you like maybe
like provoke them and you're like hello
like
hello you know you try to get them to
come out a bit
um make them to make the first move so
you can counter attack
exactly yeah no we always we're and
we're both like so
argumentative people so it's a lot of
posturing
but not it doesn't um
we we have like engaged and
had like large fights and crying and
everything
what isn't how does how do you guys have
a large fight what does that look like
um
i mean it is mostly talking i don't
raise our voices not too much we're not
big yellers and
violent people but like what gets set
like what is an actual argument like if
i were to watch
this for five minutes what would it look
like
um it would look like me sitting
like a armchair philosopher philosophers
kind of like trying to
as if i do have the divine knowledge of
what is what should and shouldn't be
done um
her much more like fidgeting or she is
much more likely to like get up and
leave like either to a different room or
the house or
um take the dog for a walk or something
and
um i think she
is much more like expressive and i
i call her out for calling me names
often even though
the names probably are fitting at times
um
what does she say oh just like [ __ ]
jerk
uh okay douche you know um
thing and because it yeah and it is like
i'm
trying to maintain and what what are you
doing that mate that
makes [ __ ] warranted um
[Music]
acting as if i know the answer i'd say
but you feel like you know the answer in
those moments
yes yes which is why it's
frustrating you know it's interesting
because what i'm what i'm
envisioning is almost like a courtroom
where you're the judge
that's what it feels like to me yeah no
like
like she's sitting down there and you're
sitting up there in your arm chair
and relatively theatrical saying yes
making the final judgment yep and i
and i that's also kind of thing is i
like retrospectively or reflectively uh
don't like
that version of myself that like is
trying to be more powerful
than her in some way that's trying to
like
maintain control and like embarrass her
or something yeah where does that
version of yourself come from
um
i
i'd say i'm uh i'm a youngest
of i have three older sisters which uh
helps i helps in just like communicating
with her but
um i have always been like a very
reserved they all talk and discuss and
i'm much more
like sit there and then add a joke at
the end or add a comment kind of thing
um sort of observational
nature i'd say okay let me actually ask
you kind of
one or two other questions if that's
okay i'm going to switch gears for a
second
can you tell me what uh the no-go zone
of talking about y'all's relationship
looks like
how does that conversation go
like breaking up yep um
it's
uh very that's much more like
sad it's much more like
crying in bed like holding each other
kind of like
a supportive like less of an argument
and more of a
like um joint feeling
how do you guys get there that's what
i'm like okay
you know like how was work today it was
good do you want to get into bed and cry
while we hold each other
that's only on the weekends um
uh you got a very funny one very funny
thank you thank you um
there's usually some yeah you obviously
have some sort of
trigger from yes um and usually i think
it's pretty variable it's not we're not
usually
based on any tell me the last time that
you guys wound up in bed
crying together and how that
conversation started um
[Music]
i think i i brought up the
like what initiated it all was like i
my feeling was that we're
too much friends that like
i feel like we're roommates almost okay
and so what that was the feeling what
happened
uh i i mean i brought that i think she
her
initial response was kind of so you said
to her
i feel like we're roommates yeah
okay she said back like um
what do you mean like is this like a
do you mean like is it not enough
like together time doing things uh like
kind of inquiring more and i said i i
i reply that it's just much more of a
feeling of
the whole relationship you know i kind
of drop a
yeah it's kind of a more of
try yeah i guess just expressing my
feeling instead of um
right doing anything and then she'll say
like so
what do you mean by that like so what
can i do
she you know she kind of looks trying to
do and i said there's like and then
maybe i'll like throw some things out
there but
um she'll
talk or she'll start going on uh
like bringing things up from the past of
like
instances where we were
like good or bad in like
or we were good friends or we were like
not
good friends or um
and so i think stressed
refute your point yeah
yeah like sort of give me her
the things that come to her mind of like
why that's clearly not the case
and why from like her perspective
obviously not friends because
friends wouldn't do this or that um i
just thought there's
a higher tier of relationship to it um
and i think it's like there
that like my feeling
versus her facts um
sort of just like saddens us because i'm
i'm like well i have this like this is
all i have to offer
to you um and she's like well i was
living in this world and now you're
telling me that you were living in this
world
um and that like we both want
we both want like and then kind of like
the presupposition of wanting to be
together is never in question it's
always
just like then it just gets very sad
because
we feel like that's yeah
crumbling in some way what's crumb
um our love or like our
uh understanding of each other our
ability to relate
okay and help me understand
a little bit about what your perspective
is on antidepressants
and it's um
i mean you don't have to i would
encourage you to not worry about
judgment uh although i imagine that can
be hard
but generally speaking i just genuinely
because i think understanding how you
feel about things
um kind of is very important without
judgment yeah um
so i guess i'll start with my experience
of antidepressants um
which was very much i mean it was i was
a depressed gamer doing depressed gamer
things
um right off and the i feel like my the
antidepressants at the time
almost blurred everything more where it
was
just like a more monotone existence of
what i was
already doing um very like yeah the
dulling effect
i think i was taking i took two or three
different of the most common
varieties um and
then like yeah went through a few mental
health institutions they were
throwing the kitchen sink at me and
everything and i think
i came out the other end still having a
feeling but also having like a
confidence
what i gained from all of that was not
like a prescription
or um a diagnosis or anything but it was
like a confidence
in myself to like okay well none of
these
idiots could do it none of these drugs
actually did anything
um but like i am the one who can
choose to do stuff and like make a life
i want or whatever um
and yeah i guess
i just see them very much as a crutch
and as a way of
lifting the bottom
up to a place where they can start to be
helped
like because there is there is a bottom
that
i've been at and i i've seen people at
where like yeah you just need more
uh serotonin and you need more dopamine
or whatever
and when
we like are on trips and like there's
months and months and months where
everything is like fantastic it's
like it i like i think i like to think
that i'm very
mindful of like what i eat and what i
put in my body and
the idea of like taking something that
makes you feel better while like
everything is good around you
seems uh drone-ish to me
seems very like just doing what you
are supposed to okay or what what the
doctor ordered
which is not i guess in authority i
necessarily
okay
okay so i'm detecting
you know something of your independence
streak coming up here too
right this idea that i'm going to study
philosophy on my own to be independent
and [ __ ] the doctors the establishment
and i don't want to be a drone
yes exactly very much cool
so what goes through your mind when you
see
alexa upping her dose and does she up it
herself or her
doctor tells her to increase
i mean the most recent one and
why this is relevant was her
reaching out for it um which
yeah aggravated me more than if it was
just a doctor telling her because i
understand just
what aggravates you about her reaching
out to her doctor
um well i thought the like
there was clear indicators during the
time period where she was feeling worse
like she was just spending a lot of time
with her family who really stresses her
out and trains her and asks a lot of her
um and
not like we moved but she had to leave
town to go help them
for a while and not having a home and
there's so many
more circumstantial things to me that
that seems like just a random
like it it'd be like
uh it's like
taking uh or
it's just not it doesn't seem like a
relevant um level
to be adjusting it doesn't seem like a
skill you need to be
boosting right now it's to me it's just
kind of a
uh you're only like increasing the like
dependence
okay when you could very much just like
take some time reorient yourself and
um start from there because
i get and i guess this always like i
have some idea that
the goal is to be off of them and okay i
see that as a
like a step in the wrong direction yeah
yeah
evan do you feel like alexa understands
you
um i think she understands me the best
of anyone
i i think i won't i'll give you the
short
version of like i
grew up not feeling very understood by
my mom
uh my parents were divorced and we did
like a week at one house week at the
other house and
i felt like my dad understood me very
well but my mom totally didn't
um and there's this eternal like
hiding from people presenting a certain
facade
um to like everyone most of the time
and in order to uh
protect myself i guess or something okay
and
i i think she understands
a lot of me but almost that that almost
um
when she says things that imply that she
understands what i'm going through
that almost angers me because i
i'm like no you don't actually get it
like this is actually an everything i'm
gonna ask you again
does she understand you
uh not entirely okay
okay
so
is this relationship safe for you
i feel safe in it is this relationship
good for you
that's the question that's that's
yeah what i've felt both sides
of that okay
do you want to be in this relationship
um i feel like i want to i guess
i think that ties into um
whether it's good for me
i feel like i want things that are good
for me um
so i want to be in it but i also don't
want to be doing things that are bad for
me
okay are you afraid that
if you are in this relationship
you won't live the life that you're
supposed to live
yes okay so i think that's the crux of
it
is what i'm getting from you is that
fair to say
yeah okay any questions for me
why is it what's what's up with the
chairs today behind you
you've chaired behind you yeah um i
think that
you know i'm we're still sort of moving
in so i also have a couple of boxes that
need to be cleared out
okay and so yeah i mean it's just
more furniture in my office
nothing no no no no other questions
regarding my results yeah
um yeah so i i think i've kind of heard
uh i think you've done an awesome job of
kind of representing what you're going
through
um and you know i
i think i i feel like i'm ready to kind
of get some of alexis perspective
and i also want to make sure that we
have enough time to talk to the two of
you together
so if there's something that is there
anything that you feel like we didn't
cover
or left out or sort of didn't get to
that you want to share
um
i don't want to spend much time on it
but uh
the i guess i'd say
like being a gamer dating a non-gamer um
is a interesting thing and um
that like i
i was generic twitch chat user
um and at a certain point
um like nothing changed i just i just
fell into this relationship
and i still feel that way and i guess
more so i'm just saying like to
everybody that
it uh it yeah being in a relationship
isn't like isn't
fixing anything it isn't going to fix
you
inherently like the the eunice is still
there for sure
okay okay cool can you
call alexa in yes
thank you very much thank you
so any takers on the idea that the
reason that he's not moving forward in
life is gonna be because he plays two
video too many video games from alexa's
perspective
because he didn't really talk about the
video games i'm curious whether we're
going to see video games
hey i guess you can't can't hear me
hey alexa hello did i get a good review
uh yeah i don't think uh oddly enough we
didn't really talk much about
oh imagine that um
but uh okay so can you tell me a little
bit about
your understanding of why we're talking
today uh
yeah so um
okay well i think this like starts with
the fact that like evan and i live very
different lives
but we're together because we have
similar values and morals and
we obviously like care about each other
and we love each other very much
um but i think there is this like
looming idea that um
since because we live or because we live
such different lives
um perhaps we aren't compatible for a
long term
um i know like when we started dating
people always made like comments about
how different we were and like both of
our families did
um yeah and i guess
like me a data point of why i think this
is a problem
is um so like we love each other but we
will have like moments of like very
intense and
city towards one another which i think
is like common
in relationships but um
yeah we can't ever really like talk
through these things
so like if like i guess this happens a
lot like
i'll be talking too loudly in a
restaurant and like it is probably too
loudly
and i'm like hey be quiet and i'll just
be like why are you telling me what to
do like leave me alone
and then we just like don't talk like
for like the remainder of dinner or
whatever so it's weird
because we communicate so well together
most of the time but we just can't get
over these incidences
that i think are tied to our long-term
looming questions of compatibility
okay can you give us that was a great
example can you give us another example
of how
animosity develops between you two um
yeah okay like so many to choose from
[Laughter]
um okay let's
okay this is a good one um so like
i feel like definitely previous before
quarantine
i like come and go a lot and
i like like to be busy probably
to a fault i always like to be doing
something be out of the house like
rarely find me just chilling um and i'd
be like bopping in and out of the house
and evan would be like playing games
and i just kind of like wait in the
kitchen to say hi or like pop my head in
um and like stand in the kitchen or
something kind of like
waiting i don't know and i think he
feels just
like i think he internalizes that like
maybe he's playing video games too long
but i think i genuinely don't care uh
because i realize i just fill my time by
probably some negative way being too
busy and he fills his time
playing video games i think in a similar
way but
then he'll come out and be like there's
just like this weird mood
that like we aren't really like we're
talking around each other instead of
talking at each other um then it's like
i think sometimes evan is like quick to
um
react quicker than i am and then
i'm like well i'll meet you there i just
won't talk to you like
and this very adaptive behavior what do
you mean made him where
like at his like crappy mood he's like
quick to react nature and when you say
you're talking you're kind of circling
around something what are you all
circling around
each other which is probably the problem
um
like okay peanut yeah so so this is
really helpful and i'm missing i'm
losing you somewhere or i'm i'm losing
track
so i kind of get that okay so it sounds
like you kind of pop home like you're
doing something you kind of come home
he's gaming so you're like
i don't know why i would sit around so
then you leave again
you do something for a little while you
come back yeah and then
what is how do you guys start to circle
or
interact because it sounds like
somewhere in there a foul mood is
brewing
yeah yeah and i think that's the problem
is like we don't know where it starts
and um so like i would be standing in
the kitchen
like making lunch or something and he
would come out and be like
hey babe how are you doing i'm like good
how are you
like good and then
both just like look at each other and
then
it's almost like i feel unwelcome
so like i give him like the cola
shoulder
or like negative body language
um or will like what
what kind of thoughts do you have about
him
uh like in those moments yeah
um i think i react so negatively
to that because i feel like perhaps i'm
being judged for
the busy nature in which i live my life
and um let's see
uh probably also that
i would like to come home and be like
a warmly embraced
yeah and i know like
logically like he's in the middle of a
game he can't come up
and i know i'm his priority in his life
but like in those moments i can't be the
priority
so these are things i logically know but
somewhere along the line
okay judge for the busy nature
of your life do you feel judged for the
busy nature of your life
i think um
i before i started dating evan i thought
of this as like a positive
characteristic that i would never stop
um but i am becoming more and more aware
of how i
use my
like enjoyment of being busy as a way to
not deal with my issues
so um when i
am around evan who lives a very like
quiet life i think
he doesn't like i find joy like going
out of the house and doing things and he
just doesn't
so i think it's like my lifestyle is
juxtaposed to his very staunchly in
those moments
so what do you use your busy lifestyle
as a coping mechanism for
um
well i think um i think that if i'm busy
i have like no time to not be okay
or to like not be um
like if i'm busy i can't process my
emotions i can just like
file them and then
like obviously this is a problem when
i'm not busy
then like everything's comes like
crashing to the ground
and what kind of stuff comes crashing to
the ground when you're not busy
um well um
or is that the kitchen scenario you
described
no that's not the kitchen scenario um
let's see um
what kind of stuff are you looking for
like behavior
are you like so when you're not busy
what happens so you're saying that you
use busy as a coping mechanism
maybe it sounds like he uses gaming as a
coping mechanism
yeah i'm not busy i'm like sad
um what are you sad about
everything that i haven't uh processed
emotionally
um so like relationships with my family
um i think
i like judge myself a lot for uh i think
we all do
but um let's see
um i judge myself for not like mediating
those relationships better
with your family yeah okay
yeah um
yeah do you have thoughts about evan
when you're standing still
and you also this is interesting um
i feel like evan is like really in my
corner
on life right now and understands like
he listens to me
a lot he's a very good listener um
and i don't always feel like members of
my family are able
to uh listen to me in that way so
um yeah i think
evan's like the best cheerleader i have
in my life um
sounds like he supports you very well
yeah i'm very lucky
um yeah so uh in a selfish way most of
the time i'm not thinking about evan
um but when i do i know i
like catastrophize things so
like evan is like quick to anger
about i guess normally like little
things like
um it was like heating up water on the
stove the other day he's like i just
hate the sound the stove makes
like just like kind of crackles i was
like oh
well like i can stop it and he's like no
don't do that and i just like stop it
thinking like i'll solve this problem
by like eliminating the fact that this
the stove is even crackling and then
he's like why did you do that like it
gets angry
um and then in those moments when i shut
down
i like begin to think like that's when
like the negative thoughts about our
relationship
come to boyle i guess come to surface
is like um
i think the easy things for me to think
are like
he's failing to see the way i see the
world he's not asking questions about
the way i see the world
um and like
uh yeah and then i lose the fact
that he is the biggest
advocate of me and my success in my life
and i think
the stove boiling is a big
metaphor for the destruction of our
relationship
how what's the metaphor like
that him like this just demonstrates his
inability to see the world i see the way
i see the world
ah so this goes back to the
compatibility in living different lives
yeah i think so um and like
i know saying that now this isn't true
but in the moment
it feels like so
intense and so founded in truth
okay
i'm gonna think for just a second okay
so let me ask you a question um alexa
when you were growing up did you find
that
when you felt bad
that you could change something about
your behavior that would make people
less angry with you
um i think i was a mediator in our
family um
i had two older sisters my parents had a
very very turbulent marriage if you
would even call it that
uh until they got divorced when i was in
uh high school
um so i always
like yeah so you always what
uh i always felt some responsibility to
like peace keep the household
like getting in between altercations i
wasn't involved in
or like i just
like wanted my family to be happy and
didn't understand why they couldn't be
okay and when when evan is like just
you know hanging around and he says the
sound of the water boiling is so
annoying
do you know what your first feeling in
response to that is
uh like fear that um
my actions are gonna make us have a bad
day
like my actions of like
choosing to boil water which like as i
say it i know is ridiculous
sure but yeah if i'm being honest that
would be it
do you ever get the feeling that he has
one foot out the door
no okay like
yeah uh he didn't have to move with me
uh and that's why i feel some guilt
like he absolutely did not have like i
was even like contemplating
uh beginning my grad program here if uh
evan wasn't up to the move
but yeah he sacrificed a lot to be with
me okay
so he sacrifices a lot to be with you
yeah what do you think he gives up
um living close to his friends
um
uh like time like
he definitely could gain more if i
wasn't around
um how much does he gain
uh i think it depends um like for a
while he had like
a break in work and he was like i think
he was playing
i don't even know what he was playing
but something a lot of hours a day
um and like how many hours per week
i'm not really like keeping a time
on it maybe like a part time
i don't know maybe like we've been
moving i don't know
so like when he games i think it's
probably like a part-time job
okay so
i i'm a little bit so i'm just trying to
get a sense of like what his day looks
like
so okay yeah i can tell you what his day
looks like so
he would like wake up make breakfast and
then
we would like go for a walk together or
he would like
and then we'd come home and there'd be
some down time and he would game
and then i would try to find something
to fill the rest of my day
like i'd go to the gym or like walk my
dog again
or like yeah um
and so so i am are we talking like
five hours a day on average more or less
probably less than that okay yeah
um feels like more to me because i mean
what i'm hearing is like
you do something in the morning and then
you find something to fill the rest of
your day
which then sort of implies to me that
he's gaming for the rest of the day
i don't know that that's a fair
assumption like we always eat dinner
together
okay um and evan like it's a very good
cook
i'm very spoiled uh so he makes dinner
for sure
yeah uh well he's really into like uh
like korean street cooking now
so i'm eating all of these yeah i mean
yeah he has like bought tools off amazon
and stuff now
so now i know it's like official uh
yeah okay very spoiled yeah he makes
yeah
uh so i eat some like very impressive
dish for dinner
and then we'll like spend the rest of
the evening like watching netflix
together or like going for another walk
or something
okay and then he used to he's like
trying to regulate his sleep schedule
right now
um but like after i like to go to bed
really early
um but he would like often stay up
really late
and play games and
i think that bothered him that we lit
had such different like
schedules but now seems to bother you
what does that bother you ah
um like yes and no um so i used to work
morning shifts that would start at six
a.m so i would like
be up by five and like sometimes he
would still be up and he would like make
me breakfast
so that was pretty dope um
but i mean like when he sleep
if he would sleep in the middle of the
day it would be uh
sometimes difficult like sometimes i
would find myself saying like
um like why can't you be awake when the
rest of the world is
um and that's just a difference i think
i fundamentally can't understand
um okay because i don't like to function
at night i don't know
yeah so alexa you know i'm just going to
point something out so like it seems
strange to me that you're saying he
plays and maybe this is just
i just want to clarify but like i'm
envisioning
you know if you go to bed maybe around
10 and you wake up at five
and he's still awake at five like that's
seven hours right there
right yeah yeah i suppose you're right
and i think some days
uh that is true and i think it's hard
for me
to pin down these hours uh because it
like sometimes he'll really be into a
game and be playing a lot with his
friends and like
sometimes he won't like we've been
moving so there's been no time to play
video games
for the past like couple weeks or a
month probably
yeah what i'm hearing from you is that
you don't think his gaming is really a
problem
um i think that's accurate and i also
would probably
preface that with like i know his mom
has made such a big deal about his
gaming in his life but like i don't want
to be his mother
um and it's not my job to tell an adult
how they should spend their time
so do you think he should be spending
his time differently
it's one thing to not tell him but do
you think he should be spending his time
differently
i think he utilizes his time in the best
way he thinks he can and if he can't
he'll ask me for help
and yes like hey babe can you wake me up
when you get up in the morning and i'm
like happy to step in and help then
okay so i ask you the question do you
think
that there's a problem and you said i
think he
thinks that there isn't a problem and
when he thinks there's a problem he asks
for my help
oh man normally i can pull off these
tactics dr k
right so what do you think um
i think perhaps he would be happier if
he had a more
balanced life where he could enjoy
playing video games in a smaller amount
of time every day
and not feel as guilty about it so i'm
i'm detecting you've said this a couple
of times
so you're picking up that he feels
guilty for the amount that he gains
yes
now see that's interesting because that
puts you in a weird situation
uh yeah it's definitely difficult to
navigate
but i think i will like i think i'm more
readily able to navigate this space
because of like my uh role in my family
model
growing up yep so which is conflict
avoidance
mediation right so here's here's what i
think is tricky about your situation
alexa
on the one hand so it sounds like you
understand him pretty well
you care about him and you support him
and so it's i'm hearing from you
basically because you're not saying
you're stepping around this but i i
suspect that you think that
his gaming is negatively impacting him
in some way
and even if we take that off the table
at least we can acknowledge that he
sometimes thinks that
now that puts you in a weird situation
because if you want to support
him and his goals and help him feel less
guilty
then you're kind of stuck because if you
start pushing him in that direction then
you become his mom
yeah yeah so that's my job to parent an
adult yeah
yeah so that sounds tricky because even
if you want to help him it maybe turns
into
looking like his mom very very quickly
so i'm not quite sure what you would do
in that situation like i don't know how
to navigate that right
um yeah that's correct
i think probably if i was more
straightforward uh
we probably would be having a different
conversation today
um so here's the other thing
uh alexa that i'm just gonna toss out
there i don't know if this is
legit or not but i've gotten the sense
that
you speak very very protectively and
positively of him
and and so that's cool like i think
everything you say is genuine
and at the same time sometimes when
people do that
it's like they're almost compensating
for something else that they're not
saying
right so like like do you feel like
there are things
ways that you feel about him that maybe
because we're on the internet
you don't feel comfortable sharing which
is
totally legit it's just like you know
here's the picture that i'm getting
right he's
he's a guy who has moved across whatever
for you
um you know cooks you korean street food
is thoughtful and caring
and sounds like in some ways the perfect
boyfriend sometimes he plays a little
bit too much sometimes you show up at
home
and you're kind of like twiddling your
thumbs for a little bit and he's like
kind of not responsive and you recognize
that
you know he can't pause the game to come
and say hi to you
or you know he can't stop playing and
then you kind of like you're kind of
living your life and he's sort of living
his life
and it sounds like every now and then
you guys like meet at a train station
and hang out for a little bit and then
you guys board your separate trains and
then you
you know and that's the picture that
you're painting to me
which seems very positive but i'm i'm
getting like there's like something
underneath the surface here that you
guys aren't able to talk about
and i'm not even sure if you're really i
can't tell if you're not aware
or if i'm reading too much into it or
you're not saying something does that
make sense because like so far it sounds
like an
awesome relationship which in a lot of
ways it clearly is
yeah i think um maybe the thing you're
missing
is um
yeah most of the time we function well
together
and we live and inhabit our space as
well um
but when we clash it's like
a huge problem and um
like we probably
uh avoid talking about
um long-term compatibility because we're
scared of the idea that like we could
not
like it's possible we're not compatible
in the long term and then when these
clashes happen
there's like fallout for days and
what is fun look like uh like not
sleeping in the same bed
um sometimes i'll like go to my mom's
house
um what are the conversations
sorry go ahead no yeah what's the
conversation
what are the conversations about not
being compatible look like
um well like the most recent thing i
recollect is um
i don't even know how we
i said something like
my memory is hazy so i'll do my best to
recreate this but i said something like
um i don't know it just annoys me when
you treat me like that
and then whatever and then he's like
well do you really want me to come up
with something about why i think i do
that and i'm like yeah i do
and he said well i just think you're an
annoying person
uh and like for someone who tries so
hard to foster their
image to the world i think i try much
harder than evan probably does
like was like
uh wrecked my
presumptions about our relationship um
and it's like really that shouldn't
matter i think like that comment
what shouldn't matter that he thinks i'm
annoying
why isn't that i'm confused like
i think i would try to justify and say
like if anybody else said this i
wouldn't care
but uh yeah it matters
because um yeah evan's kind of my person
alex i get the sense that you
yeah you're very protective pam
it's strange i think sometimes you place
his opinion above your own
but that does sound incredibly hurtful
because it sounds like he's making a
judgment about you as a person
yeah i've heard that feedback um from
some friends as well
what feedback um that they think
uh i like lower my
view on the totem pole in our
relationship
yeah yeah um
now help me understand how we get to the
him saying
you're an annoying person
um
okay i actually have no idea what
actually happened before that yeah
um if i can feel like a general gist of
like something that would happen
um would be like uh
so like something happens evan is like
quick to anger
and kind of like snaps um
and then i either like shut down or
i'm like let's let's brawl bro like
let's do this
um and
so yeah then i probably was like well
why are you even treating me like this
like
you're treating me like trash like this
is not nice i don't like being treated
like that
and then like you know
then it all comes tumbling out and then
he probably legitimate i don't know if
he knows their nose
i know it's something he works on that
is
like quickness to anger um but
um yeah and then
he'll like produce something in response
that he probably really thinks and i'm
not ready to hear it
okay um i just want to point out so like
you know you did
you do this thing where you'll point out
a flaw he has
like he's quick to anger and then you
follow it up with i know it's something
he's working on
so i think that's what what people are
protected presenting is like
or detecting like that's what i detect
is like a sense of protection
because whenever you kind of point out
you also it's like you're it's
you kind of mentioned that you're
concerned about image and i wonder if
you're protecting his image too
by sort of pointing out you know it's
weird like i just i think it's reflexive
in your mind that anytime you kind of
have a negative like you have to balance
it with a positive
yeah uh yeah called out um and
i appreciate you telling me this um
yeah i think i do this
obviously it's a coping mechanism sure
um
and i think in the home i grew up in
yeah that was like the only thing i
could do to like
convince myself i was okay yeah
so she's like yeah here's the concern
that i have around that
so i think that you guys have a lot of
stuff under the surface
and as long as your mind
when your mind sees a negative and it
puts up a positive
it removes the need to actually have any
discussion because on balance
everything's okay
and then things kind of get propagated
and then i think you wind up kind of
where you are and i'm not saying that
you guys are in the situation because of
you alone
it's a group you know you guys are at
this team game
and and and so i'm just i'm noticing
that there's like a certain amount of
maybe this is what your friends sort of
say about putting yourself lower on the
totem pole
i don't know if it's like sure you can
call it a self-esteem thing but i think
just it
in a way you've learned how to see pause
like to see the silver lining of a cloud
because otherwise life would be bleak
yeah damn that hits home yeah
and and i think the challenge here is
that like sometimes life
is weak right
and and we have to acknowledge or it's
it's my
it's my experience that really the way
that we fix
problems is like you know if my sink
pipe is busted
and there's water going everywhere and
i'm sitting there and i'm like well at
least i don't have to mop
because like the water's cleaning the
floor you know like that's
it's adaptive absolutely i don't blame
you for doing it because i think it's
it's like really a survival mechanism
and at the same time sometimes it can
allow
problems to propagate
and what i'm hearing from you is that
problems have propagated i still don't
know what
but it seems like you guys are kind of
getting to this place where you're
thinking about
long-term compatibility which i don't
even know what that means
like what does that mean like why would
you guys not be long-term compatible
what what are the ways in which you guys
are different
that means that you guys may not be
together
um how are you feeling by the way am i
being rough on you
yeah i'm not feeling good but that's
okay so let's think about that
hold on in what ways are you not because
i'm sorry to make you feel that way but
let's explore that are you okay with
that or you want to
what are you feeling
okay um
i'm feeling like bad about the problems
i've created
okay um
and like
um unable to do anything about them
okay okay
alexa can you listen to me yeah are you
able to
yeah so i want to point out something
that you said earlier okay i i don't
think things are as bad as you think
they are
and i'd like to help you try to
understand how
can you run with me for a little bit
okay yeah
you said earlier that when he asks you
he when he mentions to you that the
kettle
makes him he doesn't like the sound of
the kettle
do you remember what you said to me
about how that makes you feel
uh yeah of about what
uh that i'm gonna ruin the day is that
how you're feeling right now
yeah same thing right so here's the
thing
it it's like it's like a mode that's
activated
this is the it's [ __ ] alex's fault
right it's the same thing and the thing
is
it just as it's illogical then it's com
it's it doesn't mean it's false
but that feeling arises it's the same
thing you're like oh now i see how much
i've messed up our relationship
dude you haven't messed up your
relationship really like i honestly
believe that
i think that something somewhere along
the way you've got some kind of
programming
that when someone expresses
anything vaguely like a criticism
because i think this is the other weird
thing
now i got to be careful about this
because i don't think this is your fault
but i think it's something you can
change
i think sometimes evan is actually
looking for validation from you
and what you try to do is make his life
better
when really all he wants you to do is
sit and listen
right so he doesn't actually want you to
change like he doesn't want you to
change because he recognizes that it's
absurd
that you should turn off the kettle
because he finds it annoying
yeah what he actually wants from you is
not for you to fix his problems but a
shoulder to cry on
kind of but something is happening where
like when i point out
you know when i start to criticize the
nature of your relationship which is i
think what we're here for
yeah right and then this thing arises
and then like kind of takes over and
then you're like oh [ __ ] i [ __ ] it up
it's all my fault and there's nothing i
can do to fix it
which is whereas honestly i believe the
exact opposite
what do you think about that yeah um
yeah i think you're right and i think
like this response isn't helping me as a
person get what i want
in my life uh what i like deserve
and i'd like to not do that okay
especially in my
relationship with evan okay do you blame
yourself for having this response
i sound gnarly no this will just sound
gnarly but i blame my family
good that's the right people to blame
because here's here's the concern that i
had because remember your response is to
blame yourself right
yes that's the response my actions are
going to make us have a bad day
and so then when i ask you so here's the
tricky thing right like as i point out
this response to you
that same complex could arise again and
say oh it's my fault
for having this complex in the first
place
which would just be the complex i don't
know if that makes sense yeah no it does
i yeah it's alexa's fault complex it's
like
it's alex's fault.exe let's open up that
program
and so then when i ask you is it alexa's
fault that you keep on opening up this
exe this [ __ ] malware
and you're like actually it's my parents
fault which means that that's not the
programmer
which i i agree right so i think that
this is something that you learn to do
as an adaptation
that by taking all the blame onto
yourself
you absolve other people of blame and if
you absolve other people of blame
then that allows you to stay in some
kinds of relationships
yeah or at least like uphold a world
view that i think is important
yeah beautifully said right
yeah um
okay how are you feeling now
feeling good yeah weird huh yeah no i
feel a lot better thank you
yeah so what happened there let's try to
understand that for a second
um it came up
yeah and yeah how did we make it
probably some fairy dust i don't know
um i like stopped taking
responsibility for other people's
actions but how did you do that just now
because i made you feel like [ __ ] there
for a second
oh how did i do that
okay because that's an important skill
yo
yeah that is that that's one i should
retain um
yeah um what did i do um
[Music]
well i i realized like everything shitty
in my life
isn't always my fault but that's what
you were thinking right
how did you realize that
how did i realize that because you think
it's your fault
and then somehow today just now you were
able to realize it
and i i think basically the main thing
is pointing it out to you
so if you see that there's like malware
on your computer and you like
you know open up your processes and you
see it's there then you can like end
task that [ __ ]
so like just try to catch this and
recognize
alexa that at some points you got you're
going to be interacting
and then it's alexa's [ __ ] fault
gets called up yeah and then then what's
going to happen is
that controls you and when that controls
you you turn off the stove
right yeah because that's what it's
alexa's
forget that i want to make tea how dare
i inconvenience him with sound and then
he gets infuriated because he's like
that's [ __ ] insane like your t is
more important than my
inconvenience yeah
and and i i mean i don't think anyone
here is an [ __ ] it's it's just like
genuinely like this is what happens when
patterns
in our mind are operating without our
knowledge
yeah so just try to catch it and notice
it that sometimes if people say things
to you that may seem critical
it can pop up yeah i think
perhaps why i do this so much also is
like i get a lot of validation from
doing it uh like in
mexico academics um
especially in academics when you say
like i take full responsibility for
answering this
really like shitty twist
like test question wrong and i'm gonna
be the one student who realizes like i
should have studied more
people like you yeah that's that's five
head level [ __ ] so here's the other
thing right so like
you're not broken like this is adaptive
especially in academia beating yourself
up is how you it sounds like you're
starting a graduate program
it's the reason that you're starting
your graduate program if you didn't beat
yourself up in undergrad you never would
have gotten into grad school
yeah so that's a very very insightful
connection there
alexa okay so let me just ask you one
last question and let's get
i i imagine evan is getting nervous and
hopefully he's not watching
no i don't think he will be um nervous
or watching
oh i'm sure he's not watching okay
so in what ways are you guys not
compatible why are you concerned about
your future
um okay i'm gonna come up with some good
[ __ ] here
okay um
i worry that um
like my main concern would be like if we
ever have children i worry
that we're not gonna have a way to solve
our problems
and that our like children will be
subjected to a turbulent home life
okay so you're concerned about your your
lack of conflict resolution
yes okay it's a good concern
i too am worried about your lack of
conflict resolution
good news is y'all are 22 and this is
when you guys learn this [ __ ]
people aren't good at conflict
resolution at the age of 22. i don't
know if you realize that or not
it's like but we could be you can start
the process
okay other concerns that you have
um
yeah i guess my main concern about how
differently the way
our lives look day to day
is that i want a partner to be
present with me like when i get home
and yeah okay
when i get home from school i don't want
to feel like a burden
for [ __ ] being home
okay and so then let me ask you
something do you feel like a
does does evan make you feel like a
burden or do you feel like a burden when
you come home
um sometimes i do because he's still
sleeping and then like
if i want to spend time with him i would
have to wake him up and he hates waking
up
okay yeah what about other times
what about when he's gaming and you come
home
um i would like we've talked a little
bit about this but i like to
i would like to know like a plan for
when he thinks he'll be done
so i don't sit around like a sad
housewife waiting for my
husband to get done with the work or
whatever
okay so you know what i didn't hear
there alexa how do you feel right now
muy bien okay really you feel okay yeah
yeah i feel fine because because i this
is the first time that i've heard you
kind of call him out and not protect him
yeah right so earlier
you were saying i recognize that i can't
always be the priority in his
in his life and that when i come home
finishing the game of league of legends
is more important than saying hello to
me and being warmly greeted
because he moved across country with me
to to pursue graduate school
that's what you said at the beginning
and now you're saying eh
actually yay we're going to torpedo your
relationship for the next 30 minutes
don't worry about it
but do you do do you see that difference
yeah
yeah no i do yes and i didn't know i was
doing it when i said
yeah so so but that's okay like it's
okay that you're doing it right because
it serves a purpose
it keeps your relationship harmonious
which i think has been very important
for both of you
yes doesn't fix it but keeps it
harmonious okay
um that makes sense to me
are you what do you think about like so
it sounds like you're
in grad school do you feel like you're
growing as a person
um i'll start in the fall i haven't
actually started yet
um am i growing as a person i think yes
because i'm going through a lot of hard
things
that like for the first time i'm having
to deal with as like an adult
and not like somebody living under my
uh family's domain cool
uh yeah do you feel like evan is growing
as a person
uh um
i think um
i would say not as much as he'd like to
but probably
i should say no right so so
even there in that construction you
feeling okay
yeah breathing you're being yeah you're
feeling i'm eight
yeah i'm anxious but that's okay okay
so so even then you did it again where
you kind of said
you started your answer with what you
said
something like he thinks not as much as
he wants to
and then you said like because you're
once again adopting his frame of mind
like i'm asking you what you think and
you said he's probably not
growing as much as he wants to
yeah what are you feeling now
something's happening alexa what's
happening
well it's just like a really messed up
way to think that's not gonna help me
and i feel like bummed that i'm a
person who is like trying so much
to appease their partner's frame of mind
even though
he's not even asking me to do that yep
and in fact when you do that
he actually gets frustrated yeah he gets
angry and like rightfully so it would be
really annoying
like yeah he's like yeah he like chose
me
because i can do my own thing okay so
now that i'm gonna any questions for me
no how you holding up we too harsh on
you
no it's okay this is good this is where
the growth happens
it's not fun is it
that's that's the real [ __ ]
i'll have a diet coke after this it'll
be fine good for you consider having a
regular one
yeah um okay so
you want to go ahead and grab evan yeah
okay i want you to just
take like i want you guys to just have
take like come back in like 60 to 90
seconds
okay just just recollect your thoughts
okay
okay all right we'll be back in 60 to 90
seconds
okay
[ __ ] i had something really important
i wanted to think about it but i just
lost it
oh yeah here's what it is
so she doesn't okay
okay
hello
uh i don't know okay
all right so um
all right so first thank you guys so
much for coming on um
i'm gonna actually start by asking each
of you
to summarize what you unders
like what you took away from our
individual conversations
and share that with the other person
and like sort of what you feel is
important for them to know
okay so we're going to start with your
representations of our individual
conversation
the next thing that i'm going to ask so
if if you're
sharing if you're recapping the
conversation
what i want then the listener to do is
to repeat back what they heard
as opposed to respond so just make sure
that you guys are on the same page
okay so who wants to go first i'll go
first
okay um we talked about
how um the way in which i
blame myself is detrimental to us
communicating in our relationship
uh and doesn't really allow us to talk
about
all of our problems when i like
scapegoat myself
i think i use that as a way to like not
address our issues
because i'm like scared of actually
addressing them
yeah so what i heard is uh
in like those times when i'm
like from my perspective when i'm trying
to yeah start that conversation and
bring up that feeling
um you're like self-critical
like over overly harsh on yourself
part comes out and you start to think
only about like the things you
were doing wrong yeah i think like as a
way to like absolve you
because i think it's important in my
mind that i
always view you in some stagnant way
that like makes me feel comfortable
yeah that's really interesting yeah
okay
okay hold on so first of all
alexa we talked about more than you
blaming yourself which is the message
you're sending him
right yeah you summarize the
conversation is
i do something bad but we talked about
more than that
um are you with me or no
uh yeah
so i'm gonna ask evan evan repeat back
what you heard
and just listen to what he's saying yeah
i heard
uh that you
blaming yourself is the cause of our
breakdown in communication which in
another
itself is yeah you blaming yourself for
the breakdown of communication
so here we go [ __ ] my family
okay so so say more um
well i think i like learned these
adaptive uh
behaviors through like the role i played
as a mediator in my family
and those are not serving me well so i
would like to not do that
and to like i would like to think about
a better way
to think about myself in our
relationship
and i think it would be helpful if you
point it out and i'll do my best to not
scapegoat myself
okay great you want to repeat back
yeah that so you like at a certain at a
time in your life felt like you had to
be
that mature uh
like mediator of conversation and
that like you've it's easier for you to
blame yourself
than like engage with
our problems yeah okay so now comes
the next question which is
who is responsible for your situation
alexa
we both are and what is his fault
um oh um
it's hard isn't it yeah i don't know um
okay that's okay yeah that's okay
so i can also see you're starting to
feel anxious again
that's okay okay so we're gonna get to
that in a second
but i i want you evan to notice
that like i think you accept some
responsibility for your situation yes
yeah and you also see how she blames
herself for y'all's situation
yep and sometimes we talked about some
of the things that you do wrong
but even in this moment she's having
trouble
catching those because of the way that
she's been
the way she evolved in her family to be
like a mediator
and more mature and accept
responsibility she also mentioned that
it's like very helpful in academia for
her to do this thing
so it can be hard yeah right so in a
weird way
what you're gonna have to do is like
think like don't let her get away with
that [ __ ]
okay i like this right so like here's
the problem with a relationship
is if she blames herself like
both people have to have the same
strategy if i take all the
responsibility for all the problems in
my relationship
and my wife takes all the problems for
responsibility in our relationship
that works out fine if i share
responsibility with her and she takes a
hundred percent
that's not gonna work yeah okay if i
blame her 100
and she blames me 100 that's fine
[Laughter]
the problem is when i take 100
responsibility and she gives me 100
responsibility
that's what an abusive relationship
looks like i don't think you guys are an
abusive relationship i'm saying like
that's how they get them right because
it's like always one person's fault
and this whole thing with the water
boiling thing is an example
of like evan doesn't actually blame you
so when he when you turn off the water
then he gets upset because like actually
i don't want you to stop yeah
oh that's a great that's a great example
yeah right see he gets it i remember
right now yeah
so like what pisses you off when she
turns off the water kettle
it's like a um and i guess this almost
transitions to what i'm saying or
what we talked about which is that like
that's not what i meant
when i say like i hate this like i hate
the stove because it sucks like
i didn't want you to take the blame
there you know like that wasn't
me trying to put anything onto you that
was just me expressing
my my feelings that just arise um
and yeah i think it goes
it circles around to like just being
understood and like feeling like
what i am like that you're on the same
page as me and that like
it's uh yeah okay okay any thoughts
before we're gonna let evan go then any
any responses or thoughts alexa
yeah i guess i'm just like seeing how
these
like self-blaming behaviors are making
it harder for you to feel heard
in our relationship when that's not my
intention at all
so this is very helpful to hear yeah
do you feel heard evan
um when she said that yes
okay right like so do you feel like she
gets it
yes okay right right there is uh and
while she was saying it i got it in a
way in a new way that i have
where like i've circled around this
thing before but the way you put it
actually like yeah clicks something in
my brain as well which is that like my
understanding thing connects to your
like self-blaming thing like this is
that's the
those two forces combined which is like
my thing in your thing
yeah to faster yeah yeah yeah
that's how see it's both eels [ __ ]
fall
good message okay so evan you want to
you want to share recap um
yeah so we
as mentioned talked about um
i guess whether or not i feel understood
by you
and um
like what that like yeah
what that brings up with me and like why
i
do that and a lot of
we talked a lot about my
feeling of independence and like lost
opportunity
throughout time being in this
relationship
and that yeah i have some
uh i identify with
like the things we said when we started
this relationship still and i feel like
a responsibility
to do that what to what things facebook
like
uh like big picture like you know we big
picture like
yeah yeah um and
that i don't want to like
misstep but i also need to change
and it's hard for me to do that do both
of those things
in the like context of our relationship
or just in the context of your life
both i don't know um
okay explain what you mean evan by
misstep and change
um what's the sentence i use them in i
don't remember
okay so i'm sorry i'm i'm not following
my own rules
so alexa what did you hear from evan
okay what i heard
is that um i think at times
you do not feel understood
by me and that
you are finding it hard to change
and grow in some way and that um
you want to change and grow but you also
want to like honor
the like foundings like the
foundation of our relationship
yeah i think yeah i think that's what i
heard i agree with that okay
i i like to honor the foundations of the
relationship that sounds
yeah they're the house building
we started digging a hole yeah okay
so uh evan are there other things that
you want to share or that you took away
from our conversation
um
nothing comes to mind okay i'm blinking
right now yep so i think i'm gonna add a
couple of things so
um so the first thing is that that
you know evan you talked about feeling
stagnant
right and what did you can you share a
little bit with
with alexa about how you feel about that
uh sure i guess that
like yeah i've seen people do
a lot of things and i often
compare like our relationship to
what i could have done in five years
okay almost
um and like that i
know that that's not obv that's not the
case and that
i can change in this relationship but
that um
it yeah i there's some like
part of me that it feels like safe being
18 year old us who is just like in our
parents basements you know it's very
there's a very uh comforting
feeling that like recreating that yeah
recreating that
is like satisfying but
the other side of that coin is uh
there's like gnawing away at like always
staying
on a path of uh like
certainty rather than kind of seeing
like go venturing out yeah yeah making
my world bigger
yeah what did you hear alexa
um i heard that over time you've seen
other people you're close to in your
life change and that
you haven't seen that change in yourself
and you wonder
if like our relationship is somehow
connected to that
um and then you
like okay you um
you want to like see yourself in a
different way than how you saw yourself
when you were 18 and we started dating
and that
uh i think what i hear is that you want
room in the relationship to grow
to like allow you the personal uh
bandwidth i guess to do that to like
achieve new personal things and explore
new things
but at times you feel like you can't
because of our the context of our
relationship
yeah yeah um i guess
the one caveat i would add to that is
that like i don't
uh know what i need you know like
whatever space in a relationship means i
don't
i i guess i need some and it is i like
that you use the word wonder because
it is a lot of wonder and like
hypothesizing over
like oh sh what is this the thing like
should i sacrifice this relationship is
that what will make me change
yeah um but i think you got the i think
you have the idea
okay okay how does it feel to hear the
phrase
is sacrificing the relationship what i
need to change
what do you think about that alexa i
think it's a legitimate
wonder right like we have made a
long-term commitment to each other
whoops um
and like i've been on an easy path i
think in life where i went to school and
then i graduated
and then i got into this grad program
and it's been easy for me to see
development but for you
it hasn't been that laid out and the
only like consistent thing has been our
relationship
so you've kind of had to use our like
relationship as a landmark i think the
question is like
in the absence of those like landmarks
in our relationship what would you do
or what could you have done yeah
fantastic okay can i share a couple of
additional things
please so um evan what do you think
about how much you gain
um
it goes in waves and i
feel like i have some self-awareness
over it
but when it does come i do
not like how much it is all right i do
recognize the uh
kind of escapism that it offers me okay
okay so we're going to talk for a second
about gaming
so i think sometimes alexa picks up
guilt from you about your feelings of
gaming
and she also feels frustrated that
sometimes it feels like bizarrely
i think you guys actually agree here so
at one point we had sort of
you had said something about
you know feeling stagnant or something
and then she responds by like
invalidating what you say by
pointing to things about what you guys
like say like you know
when you guys have done stuff together
yeah yeah
and so the funny thing is that she
actually kind of feels the same way
because
she sort of feels like sometimes with
gaming she's like
a housewife kind of twiddling her thumbs
like she'll be out doing stuff and then
she'll kind of come home and you'll be
like
gaming and then she'll be like okay what
else like so sometimes it's sort of like
she's not sure
when she's playing a single player game
and when she's playing a co-op game
yeah yeah yeah cause i'm literally just
playing a
game with different random people yeah
right right so so i think she expressed
some frustration
around that which it took some work
for her to even be able to say that she
was kind of frustrated with that so
strong work
alexa but but i i think you guys really
have to look at the gaming because i
think it is
i think like a loss of potential
i've certainly seen relationships that
fall apart
followed by immense growth on the part
of a gamer
but it's not because the relationship
fell apart it's usually
honestly the situation is girl dumps guy
guys like oh [ __ ] i have to get my act
together and then like cuts back on his
gaming
okay yes and and so i think if there's
any sort of lawson
of potential it sounds like evan how
many how many hours do you play on
on average per week um
since we moved i will probably play
15 to 20 i think before that yeah
like during early covet i could easily
log
40 to 50. okay and what about like one
year ago
oh i mean that last summer was
was not a good summer necessarily and
that was probably
you're you're 60 or 70. yep that's what
i mean i think
everyone watching twitch was aware of
that yes you know i think we can tell
um so so i i'm proud yeah
so i mean that's us we we recognize
ourselves
um so i i think the other thing in terms
of your stagnation and your lack of
growth like
if you're pounding out 60 hours a year
ago like that's why you're not growing
it's not because you've been dating the
same chick for four years
yeah right like to be blocked and
and yes um you know so i think that's
something that you guys are gonna have
to work on especially because
uh you know evan you do have it sounds
like sometimes you get
angry very easily which is also common
for people who play a lot of league of
legends
and dota and games in general cs go you
can take it call it whatever you want
um the one other thing that i want to
point out so i think you guys really
have to look at that
and evan what you really need to do is
think about
what ways do you want your life to
change
and then what you need to do alexa is
when he tells you his want
he wants his life to change in a
particular way you can't make it your
fault
okay his life is the way that's the
worst thing that you can do
and here's the other thing the
connection so i'm glad you guys are able
to see that like some of your problems
are not your fault or her fault it's
what you guys combine together
so earlier we were talking about evan
being the judge and how he's like
basically like
judges you right and then that makes you
feel bad
so that also you guys can go back and
watch the pod but i think the other
interesting thing is that like
you like to be the judge and then she
also likes to be the accused
right that's very well put yeah and so
it's like
like y'all are both falling into that
pattern because both of you feel
comfortable with it
so she likes to be the accused because
she's the mediator she you know it's
adaptive in an academic setting
you've got to figure out where that
judgeness comes from
and and so kind of just notice that
these patterns that you guys have
are like something that you guys create
together
um but but i really i i mean
yeah so so thoughts any questions about
that
um maybe a question of like
so i yeah set um
i guess like set standards for what not
standard i don't know
get an idea of what i want moving
forward and realistically what that
looks like
um sometimes i worry about like
involving her too much
in that goal so if it is like stop
like gain less like only only game on
friday saturday sunday or something and
the rest of the time is like
dedicated to work days or something um
like i i worry of like involving her in
that and
having putting a responsibility on her
and holding me accountable
yep that's your independence streak
you see it you want to do it on your own
yes
right so just because so yes i i should
ask her for help
well that's something you've got to sort
through
so maybe i should just start blaming you
when you came outside of fred
friday saturday yes and so we're going
to talk about things that are going to
torpedo your relationship in a second
but evan i get what you're saying
because i think you're someone who
much like antidepressants wants to learn
how to do it on your own
right so i'm not saying that there's a
right answer or a wrong answer there
but like i i think that it may be
possible to recruit her
in some ways but i think if you use her
as an accountability tool
it's going to piss both of you off okay
she can't make you accountable i think
what she can do
and this is something you've got to work
on alexa is recognize that when he comes
to you with a problem he's not looking
for you to fix it
he's actually just looking for you to
listen and this is bizarre because this
is like
really a gender reversal in traditional
heteronormative relationships
we're very proud of that yeah so usually
it's the woman
who will express some frustration and
then the man is like how do i fix it
and then it's like she doesn't want you
to fix it she just wants you to listen
so alexa i think sometimes when evan is
like i don't know what to do in our
relationship
and then you're like what can i do to
make it better that's not what he wants
from
okay what question would be more
productive to ask
or what what's a better response
what feels like it's unproductive in our
relationship or
why do you feel like you're stagnant
just try to understand
don't try to fix don't try to help try
to understand
first and foremost
okay tell me more period not even a
question oh yeah
okay and then what and then what you can
do is you can employ
i think in general instead of sitting in
silence with each other while y'all are
eating your food
try doing so recognize that the emotions
are going to come up and then try doing
what we did today
which is just repeat back what the other
person said don't respond to it
i like that yeah okay and then you guys
are gonna get on the same page
okay it's really hard to do by the way
okay
it's easy to do here with a referee but
like when y'all are pissed off
and when you're it's alexisfalt.exe is
active
then it's hard to do but you guys have
to pull yourselves out and and really
try to practice okay okay thank you
last thing that i'll say is that so the
question is should we break up
and my answer is maybe so here's what
i'll say
i think you guys are not the people that
you were five years ago
and this relationship is not what it was
five years ago
so the question should you guys can you
continue this relationship
absolutely not the question is can the
two of you
grow as individuals and evolve your
relationship into what it needs to be
now which is not what it was five years
ago
that what evan needed was safety and
support
and someone else to take the blame when
he felt like things were his fault
because he lacked confidence and all
this kind of [ __ ]
right i'm just hypothesizing there you
guys can
right and but now what what he needed
five years ago alexa is different from
what he needs from you now
which is like the exact thing that made
your relationship
so valuable is now the very thing that's
keeping it from growing
yeah and so i think both of you guys
need to grow
as people as individuals and then see if
you guys can like continue to evolve but
generally speaking i'm hopeful
right but like that you y'all both
unfortunately do have to acknowledge
that like
you know people who get together when
they're 17 don't stay together for their
entire life all the time
and i think the ones who do it are the
ones who recognize that like you guys
are starting a new relationship
now with each other that each of you is
evolving and changing and if you guys
can support each other and doing that
at some point it sounds to me like
there's enough good stuff there that
it's like you know worth giving it a try
but you all aren't going to be 17 year
olds for the rest of your life so you
can't preserve that relationship
and in fact it's trying to preserve that
relationship where a lot of like sadness
and suffering comes from
right yeah yeah yeah i think
i really like a lot of what you said
especially gather like
we needed something then and
we need something now and we're not the
same people and
i like the idea of like it's a new
relationship yeah
it's a new type of relationship yeah uh
at
in each new stage right at all times
yeah yeah
yeah so like for another good example
of what is a new relationship is like if
you guys have kids one day
then you're just not the same people you
were after you have kids
your relationship completely changes
right so that's an example of a common
evolution
in relationships that sometimes end up
fracturing
relationships right which is okay
okay last thoughts or questions
um like how do i
stop myself from this like self-blaming
dialogue
like are there any good questions i can
ask myself when evan says like
points it out uh so
what i would say first and foremost is
you have to notice it
so you can even go back and watch the
vod and see what happened and try to
remember what happened in your mind
because you did shut it off it's really
just noticing because
when when that programming activates you
think it's fact
you don't realize that it is a program
in your mind that's running
and so just recognizing that oh [ __ ] my
mind is gonna do its thing again
like think about your mind like kind of
like a
you know like a bad leg that sometimes
gives out
and it's like it's not your fault it's
just like the leg sometimes poops out
it's like it's just doing its thing
again so your mind is gonna do its thing
and there may be some triggers
like criticism or feeling like or
actually bizarrely
yours may not be triggered by criticism
of you it may be triggered by
pain on the side of evan
right actually that's what the trigger
is so that's what's weird is it's like
when
evan expressed his frustration about
something in his life
you're like how can i make this my fault
and take the pain away from you evan
and then when you do that like you gotta
notice when she does it and try to point
it out and be like hey are you taking my
pain away just ask her
yeah and then you guys figure it out
mm-hmm
yeah yeah okay thank you that's given a
lot of words
to a lot of vague feelings feelings
like acted out over time that's what we
do here
okay so last question is do you all want
to learn how to meditate
let's do it yes okay so this is i think
this is going to be fun so we're going
to do om chanting we haven't done it in
a little while
but i think home chanting is especially
good if you guys want to be
partners oh good then because champions
we still do stream chat
um so if you guys uh so i think om
chanting is actually good to
like it's actually better when you do it
with other people
so what i want you guys so we're gonna
do it together
okay okay so i want you all to sit up
straight
okay um so i'm gonna demonstrate so om
is composed of three syllables
ah and and then
i understand that sometimes on discord
it cuts out so let me actually try to
let me know if it cuts out okay because
i think discord's voice activation
algorithm like chops it it happens okay
on stream but
so what i'm gonna do uh so i'm gonna
start with
[Music]
that you guys hear that we heard
right so you go from a fully open mouth
to a fully closed map okay okay okay so
one or two things to remember about
chanting
one is chanting is not about sound it's
about vibration
so you don't want to focus on what you
hear you want to focus on what you
feel okay people feel anxious
when they start to chant because let's
be honest
it's [ __ ] weird and then the the goal
though
is that like notice that anxiety within
you and then like start focusing on the
vibration
and as you chant the anxiety will just
like
fade away which is also useful
okay so i'm gonna demonstrate with
three breaths and then we're gonna do
three breaths together
i'll demonstrate with two let's say and
then we'll do three together okay so
did that clip out entirely oh yeah okay
so hold on one second okay let me just
fix this let me move to push to talk
and then hopefully this works okay
all right so i'm going to try one more
time with push to talk no we don't hear
you
oh yeah i need to try now
that is the okay keyword one more time
[Music]
you guys hear it that time yeah okay
great is that one
that's one okay okay so we're gonna do
three breaths now okay in succession
with eyes closed
okay all right so sit up straight
youtube twitch chat big deep breath
okay big deep breath
[Music]
ah
again
[Music]
four more deep breath in
[Laughter]
[Music]
in
[Laughter]
[Music]
two more deep breath in
[Laughter]
[Music]
last one make it count
now we're just gonna sit about 30 to 60
seconds
all right
okay
go ahead and come on back
go ahead and come on back i forgot that
i
should talk how do you feel
very peaceful very yeah my mind is very
at ease cool
so maybe that'll help you guys so it's a
good practice that you all can do
together did you guys
harmonize or resonate with each other we
couldn't really hear you but
i don't know i i
while we were chanting i definitely felt
a sense of
uh like yeah for sure like anxiety at
the beginning but
once we were in it um i was losing
track of my voice versus her voice
versus
coming through my earbud voice great
that's the whole point yeah yeah so you
want to lose track of
the individual
cool well thank you guys very much for
coming on any last thoughts or questions
before we wrap up
maybe no i would just like to say thank
you know what therapist i've seen for
the past
seven years he's been as insightful and
blunt with me as you have and i really
appreciate that
just a reminder this isn't therapy
though yeah yeah i know i know
it's a nice friendly conversation yeah
so i mean
i think yeah it's it's strange because
oftentimes with my actual therapy
patients i will not be as insightful or
as blunt
because therapy is a longer process and
you know i think we just have two hours
with you all so
gotta make it count well thank you i
think you did
so we very much appreciate it yeah of
course man so we're rooting for you
twitch chat is rooting for you but
doesn't mean that you have to stay
together
but i think we're all in your corner and
so good luck
thank you thank you very much thank you
guys very much for coming on and
sharing so much because i think this
really helps everyone
yeah strong work we hope so have a good
day you too
you too thanks